VRPTW.md, before:

## Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW)

### VRPTW Input 

You can either construct `VRPTW_Instance` or `SolomonDataset`.

### `VRPTW_Instance`

```julia
struct VRPTW_Instance
    travel_time     ::Matrix{Float64}
    service_time    ::Vector{Float64}
    early_time      ::Vector{Float64}
    late_time       ::Vector{Float64}
    load            ::Vector{Float64}
    capacity        ::Float64
    max_travel_time ::Float64
end
```
The generation of `VRPTW_Instance` is described in this example: [`examples/vrptw_example.jl`](https://github.com/chkwon/Routing.jl/blob/master/examples/vrptw_example.jl).

### `SolomonDataset`

Another way is to create `SolomonDataset`.
```julia
struct SolomonDataset
    data_name::String
    nodes::Vector{Node}
    fleet::Fleet
    requests::Vector{Request}
end
```
Each component also utilizes the following types:
```julia
struct Node
    id::Int
    type::Int
    cx::Float64
    cy::Float64
end

struct Fleet 
    type::Int
    number::Int
    departure_node::Int
    arrival_node::Int
    capacity::Float64
    max_travel_time::Float64
end

struct Request
    id::Int
    node::Int
    start_time::Int
    end_time::Int
    quantity::Float64
    service_time::Float64
end
```

This format is consistent with the format used by [VRP-REP.org](http://www.vrp-rep.org/search.html?slug=solomon) for the Solomon dataset, originally proposed in:

- [Solomon, M.M., 1987. Algorithms for the vehicle routing and scheduling problems with time window constraints. Operations research, 35(2), pp.254-265.](https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.35.2.254)

**One important difference is that the node id for the depot is the largest among all nodes, instead of 0. The node id numbering begins with 1. For example, if there are 25 customer request nodes, then the depot id is 26. Later the algorithm will add a dummy depot node, with id 27. **

For an example of loading and solving the Solomon instances, see [test/solve_solomon_vrptw.jl](https://github.com/chkwon/VRPTW.jl/blob/master/test/solve_solomon_vrptw.jl) 

<img src="https://github.com/chkwon/VRPTW.jl/raw/master/R102_025.png" width=500>


When `SolomonDataset` is used, the distance between two coordinates is calculated by
```julia
dist = floor(10 * sqrt( (x1-x2)^2 + (y1-y2)^2 )) / 10
```
as described in [this paper](https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.33.1.101)




### VRPTW Algorithm 

Currently, this package implements a Branch-and-Price algorithm. The subproblem is solved as an *elementary* shortest path problem with resource constraints (ESPPRC). See [this book chapter](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/1.9781611973594.ch5) for general description. LP relaxation in each branch is solved by [GLPK.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/GLPK.jl) via [JuMP.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl). 

- Branch-and-Price: [Desrochers, M., Desrosiers, J. and Solomon, M., 1992. A new optimization algorithm for the vehicle routing problem with time windows. Operations research, 40(2), pp.342-354.](https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.40.2.342)

#### Features
* Branch
  - [x] branching on number of vehicles
  - [x] branching on each arc flow

* Cut
  - [ ] valid inequalities ... 

* Price
  - [x] ESPPRC by Pulse Algorithm
  - [x] ESPPRC by labeling algorithm
  - [x] First 400 columns with negative reduced costs were added. 
  - [ ] Approximate methods?

Commit message:

VRPTW input data structure changes

VRPTW.md, after:

## Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW)

### VRPTW Input 

You can construct `Solomon`.

### `Solomon`

To create `Solomon`:

```julia
struct Solomon
    data_name::String
    nodes::Vector{Node}
    fleet::Fleet
    requests::Vector{Request}
end
```
Each component also utilizes the following types:
```julia
struct Node
    id::Int
    type::Int
    cx::Float64
    cy::Float64
end

struct Fleet 
    type::Int
    number::Int
    departure_node::Int
    arrival_node::Int
    capacity::Float64
    max_travel_time::Float64
end

struct Request
    id::Int
    node::Int
    start_time::Int
    end_time::Int
    quantity::Float64
    service_time::Float64
end
```

This format is consistent with the format used by [VRP-REP.org](http://www.vrp-rep.org/search.html?slug=solomon) for the Solomon dataset, originally proposed in:

- [Solomon, M.M., 1987. Algorithms for the vehicle routing and scheduling problems with time window constraints. Operations research, 35(2), pp.254-265.](https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.35.2.254)

See [this example](https://github.com/chkwon/Routing.jl/blob/master/examples/vrptw_example.jl) and [that example](https://github.com/chkwon/Routing.jl/blob/master/examples/vrptw_example_with_dists.jl)


### Solomon Benchmark Instances

For an example of loading and solving the Solomon instances, see [test/solve_solomon_vrptw.jl](https://github.com/chkwon/VRPTW.jl/blob/master/test/solve_solomon_vrptw.jl) 

<img src="https://github.com/chkwon/VRPTW.jl/raw/master/R102_025.png" width=500>

The distance between two coordinates is calculated by
```julia
dist = floor(10 * sqrt( (x1-x2)^2 + (y1-y2)^2 )) / 10
```
as described in [this paper](https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.33.1.101)




### VRPTW Algorithm 

Currently, this package implements a Branch-and-Price algorithm. The subproblem is solved as an *elementary* shortest path problem with resource constraints (ESPPRC). See [this book chapter](https://epubs.siam.org/doi/10.1137/1.9781611973594.ch5) for general description. LP relaxation in each branch is solved by [GLPK.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/GLPK.jl) via [JuMP.jl](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl). 

- Branch-and-Price: [Desrochers, M., Desrosiers, J. and Solomon, M., 1992. A new optimization algorithm for the vehicle routing problem with time windows. Operations research, 40(2), pp.342-354.](https://doi.org/10.1287/opre.40.2.342)

#### Features
* Branch
  - [x] branching on number of vehicles
  - [x] branching on each arc flow

* Cut
  - [ ] valid inequalities ... 

* Price
  - [x] ESPPRC by Pulse Algorithm
  - [x] ESPPRC by labeling algorithm
  - [x] First 400 columns with negative reduced costs were added. 
  - [ ] Approximate methods? 



### Calling from Python 

You can call `solveVRPpy` from Python via [`pyjulia`](https://github.com/JuliaPy/pyjulia).

1. First install this pakcage `Routing.jl` in your Julia.
2. Install `pyjulia` in your Python environment, following the [instruction](https://github.com/JuliaPy/pyjulia)). Note: when you run `julia.install()`, it will connect your current Python to PyCall.jl in your Julia. If you have used PyCall.jl within Julia, it may disconnect the old link. 
3. Try [this example](https://github.com/chkwon/Routing.jl/blob/master/examples/vrptw_example.py) and [that example](https://github.com/chkwon/Routing.jl/blob/master/examples/vrptw_example_with_dists.py)
